in the beginning God created the heavens
and the earth the earth was without form
and void and darkness was on the face of
the deep and the Spirit of God was
hovering over the face of the waters
then God said let there be light and
there was light and God saw the light
that it was good and God divided the
light from the darkness
God called the light day and the
darkness he called night so the evening
in the morning were the first day then
God said let there be a firmament in the
midst of the waters and let it divide
the waters from the waters thus God made
the firmament and divided the waters
which were under the firmament from the
waters which were above the firmament
and it was so and God called the
firmament heaven so the evening and the
morning were the second day
then God said let the waters under the
heavens be gathered together into one
place and let the dry land appear and it
was so and God called the dry land earth
and the gathering together of the waters
he called seas and God saw that it was
good then God said let there be lights
in the firmament of the heavens to
divide the day from the night and let
them be for signs and seasons and for
days and years and let them be for
lights in the firmament of the heavens
to give light on the earth and it was so
then God made two great lights the
greater light to rule the day and the
lesser light to rule the night he made
the stars also God and set them in the
firmament of the heavens to give light
on the earth and a rule over the day and
over the night and to divide the light
from the darkness and God saw that it
was good for the next 1500 years or so
the universe was assumed to look
something very close to this this model
of cosmology was adopted by Jewish
scholars and further fortified by Greek
scholars as in Judaism Greek tradition
largely held that the earth was the
center of the universe ptolemy of
alexandria a mathematician astronomer
and philosopher published his version of
geocentrism around 150 seee
heliocentrism the idea that the Sun was
the center of the universe had been
explored around 400 years earlier by
Aristarchus of Samos
but the idea didn't take hold the theory
of heliocentrism was later rediscovered
by Copernicus in about 1514 though he
would openly discuss heliocentrism here
assisted publishing his findings his
work on heliocentric theory wouldn't be
published until about the time he died
in 1543 Copernican ideas of heliocentric
theory were picked up by Galileo in the
next century Galileo published his work
in 1632 called dialogue concerning the
two chief world-systems it was a
comparative analysis of geocentrism
versus Copernican heliocentrism
unfortunately for Galileo his ideas
concerning Copernican heliocentric
theory were seen as heresy by the church
and for good reason the bible we're all
Christian Authority has derived clearly
states that the earth is unmoved and
unmovable according to Bible cosmology
the earth can never move Galileo had to
face an Inquisition on heresy charges
because his ideas of cosmology were
contradictory to biblical cosmology and
since the Bible was the infallible Word
of God clearly Galileo's research meant
that God was either incorrect or lying
even though Galileo was charged with
heresy based on the idea that the earth
moved this wasn't the only problem of
Christian cosmology the Bible clearly
states in the Genesis account that there
is a firmament a firmament in Greek and
Hebrew text is something similar to a
fortress vault tent dome or cliff the
firmament is well-defined
it is in essence the sky though in some
cases it's also called heaven and the
stars are little points of light stuck
to the sky also noteworthy is that the
Sun and Moon travel within the firmament
it's where God lives and birds travel
through the firmament as well and
according to the biblical account the
Sun had nothing to do with daytime day
and night were created before the Sun
and Moon and the moon was a light just
like the Sun of course we now know that
the moon isn't really alight it only
reflects light
clearly when Galileo's ideas are
expanded on the effects of heliocentric
theory on all of Christian cosmology is
devastating the Bible isn't just wrong
its cosmological model is flat-out
fictional Galileo would die a
controversial figure but his idea is
that the earth did in fact revolve
around the Sun while
rotating once a day did eventually win
over geocentrism